PIPE-RDF: LLM-assisted Pipeline for Proprietary RDF-based Question-Answer Benchmarking
Suraj Ranganath, Anish Raghavendra
BalkanID
Abstract
Many private companies work with large amounts of relational data maintained as Resource Description Framework (RDF)-based graphs. Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly employed by these businesses to facilitate user interactions with their data. Common Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) strategies that use graphs in conjunction with LLMs require the transformation of natural language queries into a query language, with SPARQL being commonly used for RDF graphs. Enterprises experiment with various LLM models, prompting strategies, few-shot techniques, and fine-tuning procedures to improve the efficacy of their text-to-query language. However, it is essential to establish a standard for testing these diverse methodologies. Given that public benchmarks will not produce relevant results for this system due to the high specificity of queries and prompts to an organization's structure, data, and naming scheme, it is essential to develop a private benchmark that is organization specific. Creating such a standard, however, is currently a laborious and time-consuming process for private companies. This research paper presents a comprehensive pipeline, proposed to assist companies in the efficient creation of benchmark datasets, thereby enabling them to test their text-to-query language strategies and objectively measure their effectiveness.
Key Words: Large Language Model, Graphs, Resource Description Framework, Benchmarking, SPARQL, Question Answering
1.Introduction
Graphs are a tremendously useful data structure to represent relational, real-world data. Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a type of graph that describes its data using triples: subject, predicate and object. The predicate describes a relation while the subject and object describe the domain and range of the predicate respectively. This structured and simple approach makes it a very popular standard for graphs that represent complex information. It is open sourced and supported by popular graph database providers. As a result, it is widely used by companies to store relational data. RDF graphs can be queried using SPARQL queries. It links entities and relations, prefixes the namespace, applies filters and performs basic aggregation and arithmetic operations to query and modify the graph.
RDF Graph Question Answering is the task of finding answers to natural language questions from the objects and relations in an RDF graph. Earlier works involved a tedious intent-based approach that abstracted the user’s intention from a natural language query and then mapped entities to query templates (Bocklisch et al., 2017). However, the advent of pre-trained language models like BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) and T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) followed by Large Language Models like GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and Llama (Touvron et al., 2023) has made the natural language-to-query language conversion process very simple. Some RDF-QA systems also use a vector embedding approach to generate embeddings for the nodes in a graph. A similarity search is performed, and relevant chunks are provided as context to LLMs that is used in conjunction with the relevance, relations of the RDF nodes to answer the user’s query (Yasunaga et al., 2021). This approach utilizes the semantic meaning of the graph’s nodes in conjunction with their relations. While this approach would be great for graphs that are abstracted from text or a graph whose nodes have semantic meaning, it is not ideal for applications like financial fraud risk modelling (Wu et al., 2022) and identity management (Raad, 2018). For these applications it is necessary that unmodified and accurate information like IDs is fetched from the RDF graph solely by relational information as they are semantically meaningless. Hence for these applications, the querying approach is used.
A commonly used approach to querying RDF graphs involves the following steps: 1) Conversion of the natural language question to a SPARQL query using LLMs 2) Execution of the SPARQL query on the RDF graph 3) Correction of errors based on error feedback if they occur 4) Presenting the result to the user in natural language. The approaches that are commonly used to improve natural language text to SPARQL generation using LLMs are: 1) Prompt-Tuning 2) Fine-Tuning 3) Trying different LLMs and pre-trained language models.
Prompt-Tuning is an approach where the prompt sent to the LLM is appended with additional context to improve the performance of the LLM. Figure 1 describes an approach to prompt tuning for text-to-SPARQL tasks that works well (Trummer, 2022). It includes a description of the task, followed by the schema of our graph, examples of conversion from natural language to SPARQL and finally the user’s question. The performance of the generation can be further improved by using the Retrieval Augmentation Technique (Guu et al., 2020) for the examples in the prompt. This method involves indexing a corpus of questions linked with metadata that contains the corresponding human written SPARQL query. Vector embeddings of the questions are generated to index them. For each question, a similarity search is performed on the vector embeddings and top-n examples, where n is selected based on the token limit of the model, are included in the prompt. Several other prompt tuning approaches have been discovered including ‘think step by step’ (Kojima et al., 2022) and ‘expert prompting’ (Xu et al., 2023) that could be incorporated into the prompt.
Fine-Tuning is an approach where the layers of a pre-trained LLM, wholly or partially, are adapted to a task-specific dataset. The weights and biases of the model are adjusted in response to the training data with a small learning rate in a supervised manner. This approach can achieve better performance, but it requires a significant number of question-SPARQL pairs. It is also a resource intensive process. However new methods like QLoRA that uses 4-bit quantization have made fine tuning more accessible and less resource intensive (Dettmers et al., 2023).
It is important that the performance of every approach to improve the performance of the LLM is quantified against a benchmark so that they can be compared. For text-to-SPARQL generation, there are several public benchmarks like LC-QuaD 2.0 (Dubey et al., 2019) and QALD-9-plus (Perevalov et al., 2022). However, they are only relevant to queries executed on public graphs like DBpedia and Wikidata. The model’s performance on those graphs cannot be generalized to a proprietary graph as proprietary graphs will have fundamentally different namespace prefixes, ontologies, query patterns, graph complexity and natural language question complexity. Hence, the text-to-SPARQL models will have to be benchmarked against a proprietary dataset.
Creating a proprietary benchmark is an arduous process for private companies. Question-SPARQL pairs will have to be handcrafted separately for the retrieval augmented few-shot prompts and for the benchmark dataset. Our research describes a pipeline to streamline the process of creating proprietary text to SPARQL benchmark datasets assisted by LLMs.
2.Related Work
Evaluating LLM generations is an area of active research. It is critical for comparing different models, fine-tuning and prompt-tuning techniques. It quantifies the weaknesses and strengths of these different approaches as well. For example, the PromptBench Benchmark (Zhu et al., 2023) demonstrates that most LLMs are not resilient to adversarial prompts at the sentence, word, character and semantic level. Hence, it is important that prompts are engineered and evaluated iteratively to check their robustness in real world scenarios.
Public benchmarks are widely popular and useful for researchers and companies that work on general tasks. It helps in identifying state-of-the-art approaches with an apples-to-apples comparison. However, they are not indicative of the real-world performance of these models. Despite better-than-human scores being achieved on benchmarks like ImageNet and GLUE, in practice, they falter frequently in practice (Kiela et al., 2021).
Dynabench is a human-in-the-loop largescale collaborative evaluation platform to create dynamic benchmarks. It also crowdsources the process of creating adversarial examples, thereby creating a more realistic picture of the model’s performance in real world settings (Kiela et al., 2021). However, the benchmark only focuses on classification and span extraction tasks, not generative tasks where it is not straightforward to establish the ground truth. DynamicTempLama uses a dynamic approach to evaluate the temporal concept drift of pre-existing models (Margatina et al., 2023). To achieve this, it uses manual templates to generate questions. We believe that this limits the scope of evaluation of the model in a real-world setting. Approaches like AlpacaEval (Li et al., 2023), HELM (Liang et al., 2022)  and PandaLM (Wang et al., 2023) aim to comprehensively evaluate generative large language models. Those scores are indicative but do not accurately capture the performance of models on specific downstream tasks like SPARQL generation.
Text-to-SPARQL tasks require benchmarks that are highly specific to the RDF graph that they are based on. They must also evolve as more relational entities are added. MK-SQuIT is an approach that aims to generate natural language-sparql pairs based on iteratively filling pre-decided templates (Spiegel et al., 2020). A limited set of context free grammar-based question-SPARQL templates are encoded for each of 3 question types: single-entity, multi-entity and count. These are then filled using entities from the graph. However, this approach is not expansive and only includes a narrow subsection of query possibilities. Complex queries that involve aggregation, ranking, string manipulation, multiple intentions and nested queries are all left out. It would be difficult to manually craft a template for these types of queries as well.
Automatically quantifying the performance of LLMs in text-to-query generative tasks is an important area of research. CodeBLEU (Ren et al., 2020) is popular match-based code evaluation metric used to compare LLM code generations against human written code. It extends the n-gram match algorithm from BLEU by adding abstract syntax trees and data-flow. Thus, accounting for syntactic and semantic characteristics of code as well. SP-BLEU and SP-F1 (Rony et al., 2022) implement a variable normalization algorithm on BLEU and F1 respectively to account for that fact that SPARQL is a formal language with query-specific variables and patterns. However, since it simply performs token level matching, improvements in CodeBLEU and SP-BLEU scores do not indicate improved functional correctness in practice (Chen et al., 2021).
Execution based evaluation metrics like the pass@k metric (Kulal et al., 2019) can evaluate the functional correctness of a program. This method creates k code generations for a question and are then independently executed. The number of times it provides the correct result is used in an estimator to get the pass@k score.
3.Methodology
The benchmark generation pipeline can be divided into 3 distinct phases: Initial seed NL-SPARQL generation, Category-wise NL-SPARQL generation and Full dataset generation. In the first phase we aim to perform a zero-shot generation of NL-SPARQL pairs from the ontology and description of our graph. These pairs are not added to our dataset and are solely used for retrieval augmentation purposes.
In the first phase, we prompt the LLM to generate natural language question templates from the given graph and its description. Now, the challenge is to find if there are datapoints in the graph that satisfy the relation described in the natural language query template. To do this we introduce the idea of Reverse Querying. We turn the natural language query template on its head and generate a zero shot SPARQL query to check what triples can be substituted into the natural language query. For instance, if we have a graph that stores information about movies, one common question template could be “Who acted in a movie directed by <director_1> and produced by <producer_1>?”. To form legitimate queries from the template we need to query our RDF graph to check for directors of movies and their corresponding producers. While the director can be picked randomly, the producer must be picked in accordance with the director that has been picked so that we may obtain meaningful results. In the event that there no producer for movies that have been directed by the randomly picked <director_1>, we have to repick the director. If there are no such relations in the entire graph, the NL query template will have to be discarded.
A zero-shot SPARQL query is generated based on the ontology of the graph for the NL query. To check its correctness, we query the RDF graph. In case there is a syntactical error or if there are no results found, which usually happens when the SPARQL is logically incorrect, we use a retry module that uses an error correction prompt to attempt to correct the generated SPARQL query. To verify the correctness of the results, we keep a human in the loop. These results are then added to a vector database so that they can be used for RAG in the next phase of the benchmark generation pipeline.
The second phase involves a category-wise generation to ensure that we have a balanced benchmark dataset. This is critical to ensure that the benchmark is fair and unbiased. ___ et al have classified SPARQL queries into 8 categories namely____. This phase follows similar steps to those performed in phase 1. However, it is done category wise to generate initial seed question-SPARQL pairs for each category. The generation of SPARQL queries fetches NL-SPARQL pairs from phase-1 by performing a vector similarity search on the NL question so that they may be added as examples to the LLM. This is called retrieval augmented generation and this few-shot approach has shown to improve the performance of LLMs significantly. Further, we introduce a rephrase module to rewrite the question in dramatically different ways and map them to the same generated SPARQL query to test the robustness of models that are tested on our benchmark. To discard duplicates that may have occured during any stage in our pipeline, we use a duplication checker that discards NL questions with a high semantic similarity score. All these seed questions are then added to a different vector DBs category-wise and are also added to the benchmark dataset.
In the final phase we use similar ideas from phase 1 and phase 2 to generate the entire benchmark dataset. We use category specific vector DBs for RAG during SPARQL generation. We have found this to be a better approach since the SPARQL query structure are quite similar among individual categories and hence query generation performance is improved. These questions are then added to the vector DB to ensure better RAG performance over time and are also added to the benchmark dataset.
Phase 3 is performed in batched to ensure human steerability. All generation results are verified by humans and if they are incorrect, they may either be corrected or discarded. Similarly, during all phases of the benchmark generation pipeline, humans can optionally choose to provide their own question-SPARQL pairs. This can be especially useful when many NL questions are being discarded during the zero-shot querying stage when graphs have complex ontologies.
Since we allow discarding of duplicates and NL query templates that fetch no results, there is bound to be an imbalance of NL-SPARQL pairs in different categories in the benchmark dataset. To remediate this, we perform a random sampling and random shuffling of the dataset category wise to ensure that it is unbiased.
4.Experiment
5.Results
6.Conclusion